.. _OCDEP7:

==============
OCDEP 7: Votes
==============

:Created: 2014-06-18
:Author: James Turk
:Status: Draft

Overview
========

Definition of the Open Civic Data Vote type.

(Based in part on `Popolo <http://popoloproject.com/>`_ types for the Open Civic Data Vote and VoteEvent).


Rationale
=========

Determining how legislators have voted on specific proposals is a vital component to creating
legislative accountability.  The ``Vote`` type and its related subtypes exist to enable the recording
of Votes (meaning the outcome of a proposal as well as the individual positions of legislators).

An attempt has been made to reconcile our ``Vote`` type (originally based in Open States work)
with the schema put forward by the `Popolo specification <http://popoloproject.com/specs/vote-event.html>`_.


Implementation
==============

Because at the time of writing (June 2014) the Popolo vote specification was still somewhat in a
state of flux we've included pieces of the specification here for consistency.


VoteEvent
---------

Because the term 'vote' can mean multiple things, Popolo makes use of the term ``VoteEvent`` to describe
the actual event of a legislative vote taking place and the term ``Vote`` for a legislator's vote
in a given ``VoteEvent``.  We generally use that terminology here, with the exception that the recommended API endpoint and ID scheme for ``VoteEvent`` objects will use ``vote`` and ``ocd-vote/{{uuid}}`` for VoteEvent.

Each ``VoteEvent`` has the following fields:

id
    Open Civic Data-style id, in the format ``ocd-vote/{{uuid}}``.

identifier
    **optional**
    Upstream identifier if one exists, such as 'Roll Call #2372'.

motion
    The motion being voted upon.  Represented as an object with ``text`` and ``classification`` elements.

    ``text`` is a required string describing the motion.

    ``classification`` is a list of classifiers (e.g. 'bill-passage') and can also be an empty list.

    In Popolo there is a `Motion <http://popoloproject.com/specs/motion.html>`_ class that has additional properties, only text and classification are supported at this time.


start_date
    Time at which the vote begins.  In flexible YYYY-MM-DD format.

end_date
    **optional**
    Time at which the vote ends, should such a time exist.    In flexible YYYY-MM-DD format.

result
    The outcome of the vote, can be 'pass' or 'fail'.

organization, organization_id
    The ``Organization`` in which the ``VoteEvent`` took place.

legislative_session, legislative_session_id
    Reference to the ``Jurisdiction.legislative_session`` the ``VoteEvent`` takes place in.

bill, bill_id
    **optional**
    Reference to the ``Bill`` object the ``VoteEvent`` is related to (if the vote in question is on a bill).

votes
    A list of objects representing individual legislator's votes.  (Popolo refers to these as
    `Vote <http://popoloproject.com/specs/vote.html>`_).

    This list may not be present if the individual voters are not known, for example in the case of a
    voice vote.

    Each element has the following properties:

    voter_name
        The name of the voter as it appears on the primary source.  (Useful for when it cannot yet
        be resolved to a specific individual.)

    voter, voter_id
        A reference to the ``Person`` responsible for the vote.  (may be null if the ``voter_name``
        has not been resolved to an individual.)

    option
        The opinion of the ``voter`` casting this ``Vote``.  See :ref:`voting-options`.

counts
    A list of count objects (what Popolo calls `Count <http://popoloproject.com/specs/count.html>`_).

    These represent the total number of individuals voting a particular way.  Each has two properties:

    option
        The voting option being tallied.  See :ref:`voting-options`.

    value
        The total number of individuals voting this way.  (Should match the sum of the ``votes``
        with the same ``option`` in almost every case, assuming they are present.)

created_at
    Time that this object was created at in the system, not to be confused with the start_date.

updated_at
    Time that this object was last updated in the system.

sources
    List of sources used in assembling this object.  Has the following properties:

    url
        URL of the resource.
    note
        **optional**
        Description of what this source was used for.

extras
    Common to all Open Civic Data types, the value is a key-value store suitable for storing arbitrary information not covered elsewhere.


.. _voting-options:

Voting Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The possible values of ``counts.option`` and ``votes.option`` are as follows:

* ``yes``
* ``no``
* ``abstain``
* ``absent``
* ``not voting``
* ``paired``

Additional values will be added in the future as needed.


Differences from Popolo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``VoteEvent`` has ``classification`` and ``extra`` attributes which are not defined in Popolo.

* Instead of using Popolo's ``context``, Open Civic Data uses the ``session`` to tie to a ``Jurisdiction``'s ``legislative_session``.

* ``Vote`` objects (within ``VoteEvent.votes``) have a ``voter_name`` property that is used for when a voter cannot be linked to a known ``Person``.  Additionally, ``voter`` can only link to a ``Person``.

* ``Vote`` objects also do not currently support the ``group``, ``role``, ``weight``, or ``pair`` properties.  There is a chance these will be adopted in the future after their use is necessary.  

* ``Motion`` objects from Popolo are represented simply as ``motion.text``, this is future-proof
  should we ever choose to adopt additional ``Motion`` properties.


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain per the Creative Commons
CC0 1.0 Universal license (http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/deed).
